---
categories: ['meta']
date: "2024-06-10"
title: 'You cannot name a MongoDB collection "hello"'
---

(A draft StackOverlow questioned that I answered for myself)

***Draft question***

I am using mongosh version 2.26 on iTerm2 (Build 3.5.0) on a Mac.

I am starting to explore MongoDB with the aim of setting up a MERN website.

When I run `mongosh`, the Mongo shell correctly opens.

Within the Mongo shell, I switch to and create a new db, e.g. one called random, by `> use random`.

`$ show collections` correctly shows no collection.

I then run `db.new.insertOne({name: "name"})`.  A document is correctly created under the `new` collection.

But when I run `db.hello.insertOne({name: "name"})`, I get the error

`TypeError: db.hello.insertOne is not a function`

This is particularly bizarre because if I run `db.createCollection("hello")`, I do succeed in creating a collection called "hello".

[MongoDB documentation](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/limits/#naming-restrictions) provides,


> Restriction on Collection Names
>
> Collection names should begin with an underscore or a letter character, and cannot:
> 
>- contain the $.
>- be an empty string (e.g. "").
>- ontain the null character.
>- begin with the system. prefix. (Reserved for internal use.)
> 
> If your collection name includes special characters, such as the underscore character, or begins with numbers, then to access the collection use the db.getCollection() method in mongosh or a similar method for your driver.
>

I don't see how I am in breach.

I also don't think the issue is I have a collection in another database called "hello".  I made another db called "new", and made a collection within it also called "new".  No problems there.

So what might explain the titled error?

***Answer***

Improbable as it may sound: ["hello"](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/command/hello/) is actually a standalone method in MongoDB.

This can be shown if you run `db.hello()`.